.TH acheck 1 "February 2023" Linux "Tools"
.\"
.SH NAME
acheck \- MPI and OpenMP Affinity Checker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B acheck
[
.B \-h
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-byrank
]
[
.B \-amask
]
[
.B \-nmask
]
[
.B \-numa
]
[
.B \-split_mask
]
[
.B \-on_cpu
]
[
.B \-tid
]
[
.B \-gpu
]
[
.B \-label
]
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.IP -h
produce usage information and exit
.IP -v
Print detailed rank mapping and binding information, without 
this option only basic 
information is provided on the number and distribution of any
processes and threads
.IP -byrank
order binding information by rank rather than by host
.IP -numa
add a column on NUMA regions used and encode NUMA mapping in ASCII binding map
.IP -amask
toggle display of ASCII-encoded binding mask
.IP -nmask
enable display of numeric binding mask
.IP -split_mask 
Split the mask into two - useful for systems with hyperthreading
.IP -oncpu
Toggle display of 'oncpu' column showing where the current thread is actually running
.IP -tid
Shows the thread id (what this means depends on how the source was built,
not relevant for normal usage)
.IP -gpu
Enables detection of available GPUs
.IP -label
display a label for each process
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
This program prints out useful information on the distribution
of processes in an MPI application showing how processes
are distributed across nodes.
.P
It also provides information on OpenMP threading and details
on how threads are bound to cpus on each host.
.P
Some of the fields need to be enabled and can be switched when the program is built. For example the map of cpus that any thread is bound to can be displayed as numeric values or ranges or as a string mask where "." means no binding to the cpu in that position (numbered 0 to maximum cpu from left to right) and a "1" shows the thread is bound to that CPU. If the NUMA mode is selected (-numa) then instead of a 1 then the ascii charcters 0,1,2... are used to denote which NUMA region the cpu is bound into.  Also when the -numa option is in effect then an extra column is displayed to show which NUMA regious contain cpus that the thread is bound to.
.P
If GPU information is requested (and compiled in) then additional information is output. An indication is given of which environment variables are set (for example ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES or HIP_VISIBLE_DEVICES). The value of 
.B 
one
of these environemnt variables will be shown for each proecess along with information on which pci busid and NUMA domain mapped to each GPU detected in turn from HIP API calls.  Note that if more than one of the *_VISIBLE_DEVICES environment variables was set then the values of only one of them is displayed, it would be best to carefully consider the effect of this.
.P
Acheck can also be used to debug MPMD launches when the
.I -label 
flag is used, a label can be defined (per process)
from the environment variable ACHECK_LABEL
or from argv[0].  The latter feature can be used by using
symbolic links to 
.B acheck
in order to test an MPMD launch that would have used different
binaries.
.P
Note that various options are toggles, this is because acheck
can be build with various defaults to tailor it to individual
site preferences.
.\"
.SH NOTES
.\"
This is a work in progress and is not
production code and as such has limited error handling and
known inefficiencies at scale.  This tool is not supported by Cray or HPE.
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
Harvey Richardson, Hewlett Packard Enterprise
.\" I lost all my templates for manpages from 20 yeards ago
.\" This is done from scratch


