# Problems with ectrans

-   ectrans suffers from a double BLAS and FFTW linking problem.
    
    It looks like libtrans_dp.so already brings in the double linked libraries problem
    
-   When I try to build forcing `-fopenmp` options wherever I can, I actually get a 
    library and executables that do not use any MP library...
    
    Forcing `-fopenmp` for the regular Fortran flags is not needed as it is used
    anyway whenever `ftn` is called to compile source files (but not for linking).
    
    The single threaded libraries likely come from a part that is added to the
    end of the link line:
    `/opt/cray/pe/fftw/3.3.10.5/x86_milan/lib/libfftw3.so /opt/cray/pe/fftw/3.3.10.5/x86_milan/lib/libfftw3f.so -lsci_gnu`.
    
    After running `cmake`, these are found in the files `src/trans/CMakeFiles/trans_dp.dir/link.txt`
    and `src/trans/CMakeFiles/trans_sp.dir/link.txt`.    
    
    After removing these lines, the code links the single-threaded FFTW routines but
    the multi-threaded LibSci. As I cannot find an `fftw_init_threads` in the code,
    this is probably OK. Also, analysing the link line generated by the link wrapper
    clearly shows that the wrapper tried to link with the OMP FFTW library, but that 
    it was not needed.

-   Note that using cmake 3.20.4 (from the system) or cmake 3.27.7 (from buildtools/23.09)
    does not make a difference.

-   Setting `-fopenmp` for the exe linker seems to be important also. When not set, 
    cmake adds a lot of libraries to the link line (and different ones from when
    it is set, when it only adds 3).
    
