# Building container on LUMI

This document is a work in progress

## Using the CPE and LUMI software stack at build time 

When using `proot` does not allow to bind files and directories at build time if
it doesn't exist  in the container. To go around this limitation, a two-stage
process is used to have access to the CPE and the LUMI software stack at build
time. In the first stage we

  - create all the directories we want to bind at build time
  - create empty files for the files we want the bind. The most important ones 
    being the cxi and lustreapi libraries
  - install the CPE system dependencies
  - write the ldconfig files so that the CPE in the container will be able to 
    behave like on the host
  - write a custom initialization script to be able to use Lmod inside the
    container (see below)

During this phase the paths to the directories and files are written to files so
that they can be retrieved for the second stage. A wrapper script
expoiting this mecanism could be:  


```bash
#!/bin/bash

siffile=$1; shift

binds=$(singularity exec $siffile bash -c 'cat /etc/container-bind-*.list' | paste -s -d ',')

singularity exec -B$binds $siffile "$@"
```

or, using environment variables, for example, for the Python layer

```
export SIF=$(readlink -f output/01-python.sif)
export SINGULARITY_BIND=$(singularity exec $SIF bash -c 'cat /etc/container-bind-*.list' | paste -s -d ',')
singularity run --app python $SIF
```

The main motivation for the inclusion of this mechanism is that it allows the 
container to "explain itself": the container is able to provide what it needs
to function as designed instead of relying of the knowledge of the user.

The second stage only performs one operation: run `ldconfig`. However, this step
is done with the CPE bind to the container. After this step, the container
will behave like the host with regards to the selection of the default Cray
libraries.

These first stage steps are in the `base.def` singularity recipe file. The
second stage recipe is auto-generated by the build script (`build_qiskit.sh`).

One of the important aspects of the container initialization is environment
sanitization: the module loaded on the host should not influence the container.
That's why we first remove all environment variables that could influence Lmod
from the container environment prior to Lmod initialization.

```
unset MODULEPATH

unset -f module
unset -f ml

for prefix in LMOD __LMOD _ModuleTable CRAY PE LUMI EBROOT EBVERSION EBDEVEL; do
  for var in $(env | grep ^$prefix | cut -d '=' -f1) ; do
    unset "$var"
  done
done
```
This manual sanitization is a better option than using the `--cleanenv` option
of singularity because the latter option would remove useful Slurm environment
variables from the container environment.

A second important aspect of the container initialization comes from the fact
that singularity uses an embedded shell interpreter for environment
initialization. This embedded shell interpreter is there to support containers 
with no shell installed but cause Lmod initialization to fail. For this reason,
a workaround is implemented to make sure bash is used as the environment shell:

```
%environment

action="${0##*/}"
file="/etc/container.bashrc"

case "${action}" in
shell)
  if [ "${SINGULARITY_SHELL:-}" = "/bin/bash" ]; then
    set -- --noprofile --rcfile $file
  elif test -z "${SINGULARITY_SHELL:-}"; then
    export SINGULARITY_SHELL=/bin/bash
    set -- --noprofile --rcfile $file
  fi
;;
exec)
  export BASH_ENV="$file"
  set -- /bin/bash --noprofile --norc -c "exec $(/usr/bin/printf " %q" "$@")"
;;
run)
  if test -x "/.singularity.d/runscript" || test -n "${SINGULARITY_APPNAME:-}"; then
    function exec {
      export BASH_ENV="$file"
      unset -f exec
      exec /bin/bash --noprofile --norc -c "exec $(/usr/bin/printf " %q" "$@")"
    }
  else
    set -- /bin/bash --noprofile --rcfile $file
  fi
esac
```
Because of this, it's not recommended to use the singularity `%environment` 
section for the recipes but instead write a file in the `/etc/container-init.d`
which will be sourced by the initialiization script (see next section).

## Add additional layers to the base container

The strategy used to build the containers is to create "layers". These layers
consist of container build on top of each other: the previous container is the
starting point of the next layer. The motivation for this approach is the fact
that most containers will have some parts in common (ROCm, Python), meaning some
layers can be reused. For example, the header of the recipe, starting from the
base container whould look like this:

```
Bootstrap: localimage
From: base.sif
```

### Use SCIF

One recommendation is to use the `%appinstall [APPNAME]` sections when
installing software even if no `%apprun` is provided. It allows the user to query
what is installed in the container using the `inspect` command:

```
 $ singularity inspect --list-apps ./output/03-qiskit.sif
pip
python
qiskit-aer
rocm
symengine
symengine.py
```

It's also recommended to use the `%applabels` section so that the user can
query information about an application/library without running the container:


```
 $ singularity inspect --app python --labels ./output/01-python.sif
SCIF_APP_NAME: python
VERSION: 3.11.10
VERSION_MAJOR: 3
VERSION_MINOR: 11
VERSION_PATCH: 10
VERSION_SHORT: 3.11
```

### Create environment file to be sourced at initialization

The base container create a utility to generate environment file which can be
used in container recipes to create files in the `/etc/container-init.d`
directory. Example usage is as follow

```
cat >$(getenvfile) <<EOF
export ROCM_PATH=/opt/rocm
EOF
```
